+= VERSION HISTORY FOR: =+
GenP.exe
DRUMGEN : THE ULTIMATE DRUM EXERCISE GENERATOR

---------------
PROGRAMMING HOURS : +- 230;
TIME TAKEN TO COMPLETE : +- 20 Months (9 Month Rest Period);
ASSESMENTS DONE : 1;
ASSESMENT HOURS : +- 11;
Build : 6.0.3.1
Estimated permutations of patterns to date:
2.0611555287763243636011062946658e+4678
---------------

22 May 2008
Legend added for use on main screen and in saved .bmp's.
Random Options interface and implementation changed.
Removed previous subdivision implementation.

20 May 2008
Extensively updated readme.
Toolbar Random Drop-down button now executes previous procedure when clicked but dropdown not initiated.

19 May 2008
Fixed bug deleting "No Sound" from the Kit Designer.
Created splash-screen image.

18 May 2008
Replaced all buttons with new format buttons (Encarta and Square).
Kit Designer Design / Exit Design Mode button integrated into single button.
Random exercise toolbar options changed to single dropdown menu.
ReadMe format changed to PDF.
ReadMe form removed, replaced on Main form with ShellExecute code.

17 May 2008
Added smoothed edges to notation image.
Changed form colour.
Removed About form borders.
When selecting note symbol from pop-up, the name of the instrument is displayed aswell.
Clearing the Kit Designer now re-adds the items to the list.

16 May 2008
Added Shift Pattern Left/Right Function.

15 May 2008
Ver 6.0.3.1
Singular MIDI combo-boxes update.
Updated MIDI options interface.
Added Apply Voicing to pattern pop-up menu.
Random Subdivision and Note Value moved to another popup box.
Changed edit pattern group show method.
Added status bar, and started coding hints for all the components.
Minor Play-Along interface change.
Minor Random Voicing and Load Standard Template revision.

11 May 2008
Continued re-writing threads.
Fixed tempo change bug.
Removed unneccessary code.

09 May 2008
Ver 6.0.3.0
Note groupings related to subdivisions.
Accent and subdivision indicators moved.
Removed code not needed anymore.
Started re-writing threads.

06 May 2008
Added basic beamed notes feature.

05 May 2008
"Edit Pattern" Method changed, now responds to where the mouse is moved in the grid.
Pattern Repository Moved.
Play-Along feature clear method updated.

06 March 2008
Updated Readme.
Continued Random Voicing Feature.
Fixed Kit Voicing Save bug.
Fixed Metronome Subdivision initialisation bug.
Metronome now shows current chosen note value.
Minor interface change.
Moved some options to a options tab on the main form.
Grace notes functionality completely removed until coding is complete.
Updated ReadMe.
Device Controls now hide whenever it, the play-along or the main form is not the active form.
Voicing / Kit Form may now only have 1 source per sound.
Fixed editing notes while MIDI playing bug.
Comment show bug fixed.
Comments reverted to old method of 255 chars.
Registration code completed. (Minor warning messages should still be added.)
Started Coding Basic Rhythm Trainer Input Features.
Started Basic Grace Note Functionality.
Added Grace Note volume to MIDI form.
Changed MIDI Form layout.

Largely fixed scrollbar scrolling.
Fixed MetroGrid Length bug.
Play Along Kit and Rhythm Trainer icons changed.
Removed Kit Designer from Tool Buttons, and removed icon.
Moved Metronome Timers into Threaded procedures.

Device Controls now closable from its own form.
Add button to show/hide pattern repository feature.
Added Seperate Subdivision Pulse Base Feature.
Syncronised Metronome Timers.
Added Seperate Subdivision Timer for the Metronome.
Added Load Pattern Repository into Existing Repository feature.
Updated Sticking Patterns form. (Better display, note beams.)
Added registration details file generation.
Moved accent display position.
Added basic note beams.
Linked Limbs now working.
Fixed Device Controls tempo bug.
Removed Pattern / Song Option.
Started Coding Registration form and process.
90% Completed General interface.
Fixed tiny Save Data bug.
Drum Pad and Brush Patterns completely removed from project (see builds below 6.x for archaics).
Added code to prevent some General Pattern issues when no pattern is selected.
Updated ReadMe.
Fixed minor complex subdivision issue.
Updated Main Interface.
Changed Metronome Interface.

Code streamlined for General interface.
Added additional rest symbols reflecting note values.
Found and deleted numerous lines of outdated / unused / component deleted code.
Restructured and redefined numerous procedures for compatibility and useability.
Intensely Streamlined code for new General interface.
Fixed some Rhythm Trainer metronome bugs.
Extended Main Canvas Height.
Added Basic Rest Note Drawing Functionality.
Hid Old Style Pattern Editing Groups.
Mute button code streamlined.
Removed Brush Patterns function.
Added "Linked to:" group box.
Started coding general pattern options group and grace note combinations.

Started fixing the MIDI save code and Voicing save code.
Added ReadMe HTML to exe and a form to display it.
Added 'Save as MIDI' info message.
Changed ReadMe to HTML format.
Optimized Custom Pulse Pattern Code.
Started Coding Rhythm Trainer Form.
Started Coding Registration Form.
Added 'Gray' Icons.
Changed Random features icons.
Fixed Integer Overflow and Range Check error relating to MIDI Devices not found.
Metronome 'Sound On' changed to 'Mute Sound'.
Pattern Repository file code changed (Now supports unlimited patterns).
Fixed Random Subdivision generating a 'Division by zero' error.
Fixed a few Kit Designer bugs.
Added Voicing limb colour options.
Kit Designer Voicings shifted to separate image components.
Minor changes to MIDI form.
Multiple sounds extended to 10.
Some controls of Play Along form removed.
Added Device Controls.
Metronome form less dependant on Main form.
Removed encryption on saved files.
Improved Pattern Repository functionality.
New icons for Kit Designer and Stickings.
Added some container enabling/disabling features.
Modified About form.
Recoded Sticking Patterns drawing methods.
Added grace notes to Sticking Patterns.
Added Auto-Add to Pattern Repository.
Encrpytion added to Saved Pattern repository.
Pattern Repoistory extended to 300 Patterns.
Some brush pattern code modified and optimized.
Some pulser modifications to use the scrollbar (Not 100% working just yet).
Tempo removed from saved history.
Comments extended to 1000 characters (Still a few bugs).
Minor Interface, MIDIStop, Pattern Repository and Tempo Changes revisions.
Created basic 'Rest' note images.

Added code to About form, preventing illegal changes to any important info.
Added Resolution adapting code to all forms.
Changed Sticking Patterns form layout.
Coded enabling / disabling the scrollbar depending on the length of the exercise.
Fixed bug that caused printing when the Cancel button on the Print dialog was pressed.
Corrected old bug generating wrong amount of 'Counts' for the position line.
Added error preventing code to Accent/Unaccent note function.
Fixed old bug of Position Line counting from the wrong place when subdividing the metronome.
Notes now always start on the same place, no more large gaps between the labels and start of notes.
Replaced all CopyRect Clearing methods with FillRect (Memory and foreseeable error issue).
Coded Random Complex Subdivisions.
Optimized some code, found unneeded paramaters and procedures and removed them.
Added MySpace details to about form.
Optimized some code, fixed the annoying range check error.
Added Delete Pattern from Pattern Repository, as well as some minor error-preventing code.
Added warning message to 'Clear Pattern Repository'.
Changed Metronome Click CheckBox to a Glyph Button.
Added Save and Open Pattern Repository functions to main menu.
Changed Sticking Patterns form layout.
Added some functionality to Pattern Repository functions.
Optimized old ErrorChecker code.
Completed entire Pattern Repository code (No more errors).
Added 'Add to Pattern Repository' function to Sticking Patterns form.
Added Pattern Repository (1 unfixed error still).
Changed old 'GenP' file extension to new 'DrumGen'.
Rearranged interface.
Started coding Song / Pattern function.
Extra functionality code for DrawCount and Frmprefs.
Completed some PlayAlong kit code.
Fixed a very old undiscovered kit drawing bug.
New Method used for clearing kit canvasses.
Sticking Ellipses changed to Standard Symbol.
Added Info Message to Kit designer indicating if it can be used or not.
Changed Saving Kit Voicings procedure (Easier debugging).
Removed Line function from Kit Designer.
Added button to access Kit Designer from Play Along form.
Added Message to indicate if no sound sources exist (Random Voicing).
Restructured Menu interface.
Fixed bug relating to new MIDI playing method.
Restructured some MIDI Message functions (Easier debugging).
Fixed Pulse Pattern bug not playing correct sounds.
Removed volume image from metronome form.
Added PlayAlong ToolButton & Icon.
Changed MIDI playing method.
Improved comment form and display code.
Re-arranged and updated interface.
Started Random Voicing Coding.
Added ColorBoxes for Normal / Accented Play Along notes.
Completed Basic Play Along functions.
Fixed Random Exercise Crash Bug.
Added OK buttons to forms.
Completed Basic Random Options Code.
Removed Fill function from Kit Designer.
Replaced all FloodFill with CopyRect (Old GDI command support issue)
Decreased max count to 17.
Updated Interface Look.
Added Input List to DrumPad.
Fixed Tempo Tap Bug.
Added Standard Voicing Template.
Integrated Voicing Data and Image.
Fixed Tempo Typing Error.
Added Print function.

MIDI Play/Pause/Stop improved.
Updated MIDI Options Interface.
Removed Mute from MIDI Options.
Modified Sticking Pattern form.
Added Assign Limb feature for Single Voicings on the Voicing form.
Added Option to Enable / Disable Complex Subdivisions.
Sticking Patterns now only generate with 2 or more strokes.
Fixed MIDI Playback Bug.
Added Play Along Kit Form.
Improved Interface.
Removed Build and Last Update info from About form.
Fixed Major MIDI Volume Bug.
Added Complex Subdivisions.

Maximum bars reduced to 5, maximum count increased to 32.
Added Shift / Adapt accent option.
Changed MIDI playing method.
Changed implementation. Notes are drawn/cleared or accented/unaccented through 1 selection.
Added code so that Save Bitmap saves the entire pattern in a friendlier manner.
Added Drum Pad to functions menu.
Changed Random Difficulty Options implementation.
Added Scrollbar to Main Form. (For lengthy patterns)
Added Drum Pad form. (Not a lot of code just yet)
Added Apply Sticking function.
Added Inverse and Reverse Sticking functions.
Streamlined Randomator Codes.
Removed Grace Note functions.
Added Sticking Form.
Added Instrument Options to Metronome Form.
Added Tempo to Main form.
Improved Brush Patterns form functionality and interface.
User can now select which device should be used for MIDI output.
Added Brush Patterns form.
Added Difficulty Settings.
Improved Interface.
Added Random Subdivision and Random Note Value options to Pattern Pop-Up menu.
Removed Random Checkboxes (Archaic).
Added "Test" button to metronome form for testing and/or standalone use.
Improved Kit Designer Code.
Changed Kit Designer Interface.
Added MUTE options to Main Screen.
Added option to cancel certain limbs generating patterns.
Added 2, 3 or 4 way independence options.
Slider now slides according to metronome pulse.
Corrected "Save As JPEG" to "Save As Bitmap".
Added General Options.
Removed Random Count Feature.
Added Auto-Update feature.
Improved Interface.
Changed Subdivision and Note Value RadioButtons to Glyph Buttons.
Changed Counting Options.

MIDI timing and efficiency improved.
History function improved.
Users can now save a bmp and GenP file containing voicing data.
Removed Reload Previous function from Kit Voicing form.
Reverse Function on Voicing form now reverses Sound Areas as well.
Users can now create voicing on the Kit Voicing form that can be applied to the kit.
User can now choose instruments and note volume.
Added form for MIDI options.
Simplified interface
Resized Rhythm Chart
Added virtual grid selection.
Changed Metronome to MIDI.
Removed Slider.
Added code to draw a virtual grid on the canvas.
Removed String Grids again.
Added Accent functionality to MIDI drums.
Added Comments to the TPattern Data (History).
Added Basic MIDI functionality.
Added Metronome Options and Kit Voicings ToolBar buttons.
Removed Super Exercise function.
Removed Splash image.
Added Random Grace Note CheckBoxes for specific limbs.
Added Random Options form.
Added Kit Designer to Kit Voicing Form.
Added Swap Pattern function to the pop-up menu.
Added Kit Voicing Form.
Removed Legend.
Changed the saving and loading method to data instead of text.
Added back the String Grid, 1 for each limb.
Added splash image.
Moved metronome options to a seperate form.
Removed ghost note function

Added Other Pulse Pattern function to metronome.
Removed the Rhythm Chart heading.
Changed Program Name
Added a verical line to the slider function.
Added Toolbar & Icons
Modified interface.
Added Random Function to Right-Click menu.
Added Inverse Pattern Functions.
Added Reset Function for metronome features.
Added Reverse Pattern Function.
Added popup menu for right-clicking on patterns.
Integrated metronome into GenP, as well as a slider to show where you are on the chart.
Revamped interface.
Removed encryption feature due to compatibilty issues.

Updated interface, and slightly improved on it.
Added more Random options.
Seperated Note Value and Subdivision Random procedures.
Updated Counting and Error Correcting procedures.
Added Encryption for saved files.
Added Legend
Added Error Checking and Correcting procedures.
Updated Grace note generating method.
Streamlined saving procedures' method.
Slightly modified interface.
Added Grace Notes.
Added Ghost Notes.
Added Save History and Open History functions.
Thoroughly updated the ReadMe file.
Modified interface for easier use and better low-resolution quality.
Removed columnised grid and associated features.

Modified Super-Exercise feature.
Fixed a few minor problems concerning the Super-Exercises.
Modified interface for better low-resolution quality.
Generate Rhythm and Generate Accent buttons replaced by Generate Pattern for Notation Grid.
Fixed a bug in the save functions.
Fixed Save functions to include the Count used.
Updated Super-Excercise Function
Slightly modified interface for better low-resolution quality.
Fixed Clear History procedure.
Updated Super-Exercise function.
Changed loading of history method.
Added Super-Exercise function.

Added code to adapt form to resolution.

Slightly modified interface.
Changed notation counting method.
Changed interface back to old interface.
Made notation and columnised grid independent of each other.
Updated random procedure to use less processing time.
Changed random procedure method.
Changed initial counting method.
Fixed various spelling mistakes.
Reset functions now include resetting subdivisions.
Added random subdivision function.
Set maximum and minimum values for the count and bar spin-edits.
Updated labels to display the correct terminology for functions.
Changed interface.
Updated pattern generation so note values apply to patters even if they are not subdivided.
Added subdivision and note values.
Added history function.
Add ability to save the notation as a .jpeg file.
Fixed 'About' Form.
Boxes displaying the count of each limb can no longer be modified.
Changed default values of components.
Updated open and save generated data files to include subdivision and note value settings.
Updated open and save procedures to flag files as read-only.
Added ability to save and open generated data files.
Changed interface.
Added image box to draw notation.

Removed presets.
Removed accent studies function.
Changed Icon to crossed drumsticks.

Added accent studies function.
Added random count function.
Added ability to save and open text files with pattern data.
Added a random function for patterns and accents.

++Original Program++
A program where you could either choose from preset patterns, or manually entered ones, for both rhythm and accent, and a chart was generated.

